Update icons chapter (#1203)
plone/documentation: docs/classic-ui/icons.md

## Registration

Icons are registered in Plone's registry.

> This provides an option to customize the contenttype and Plone UI icons by overriding icons via XML. Plone ships with the following icon registrations by default.

Reviewer: When used in narrative text, "contenttype" should be two words, "content type". Else it should be an inline literal or in a code-block.

Also please use one line per sentence.

```suggestion
This provides an option to customize the content type and Plone UI icons by overriding icons via XML.
Plone ships with the following icon registrations by default.
```

- [Bootstrap](https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_bootstrap.xml)
- [Content Type](https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_contenttype.xml)
- [Mimetype](https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_mimetype.xml)
- [Language Flags](https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_language_flags.xml)
- [Country Flags](https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_country_flags.xml)
- [Plone](https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_plone.xml)
- [Toolbar](https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_plone.xml)

> The icons above are made available as plone resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The icons above are made available as Plone resources.
```

> For example, the lightning icon's resource path is `++plone++bootstrap-icons/lightning.svg`. One could register another icon set under a new name, for example `++plone++fontawesome-icons` and override the registrations above to use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the lightning icon's resource path is `++plone++bootstrap-icons/lightning.svg`.
One could register another icon set under a new name, for example `++plone++fontawesome-icons`, and override the registrations above to use them.
```

(classic-ui-icons-contextual-icons-label)=

## Contextual Icons

Plone defines contextual icons, which are used in specific places in a website.

> For example we have an icon registered under the name `plone.icon.plone-copy` in https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_plone.xml which points to the bootstrap clipboard-plus icon `++plone++bootstrap-icons/clipboard-plus.svg`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example we have an icon registered under the name `plone.icon.plone-copy` in https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_plone.xml which points to the bootstrap `clipboard-plus` icon `++plone++bootstrap-icons/clipboard-plus.svg`.
```

To use a different icon than the system default, you can override the registration for `plone.icon.plone-copy` with another icon path.

(classic-ui-icons-icon-expression-label)=

## Icon expression

> ```{note}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{todo}
```

How does this work? We need an example here!
```

- The field `icon_expression` is used again to define icons for actions, contenttypes, and other purposes.
- Use the icon name for icon expressions.

(classic-ui-icons-iconresolver-label)=

> ## Iconresolver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Icon resolver
```

> The iconresolver take's an icon name (without the `plone.icon.` prefix) like `plone-copy` or `align-center` and resolves it to an actual icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The icon resolver takes an icon name, such as `plone-copy` or `align-center` (without the `plone.icon.` prefix), and resolves it to an actual icon.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```console
````

http://localhost:8080/Plone/@@iconresolver/plone-copy
```

```

> http://localhost:8080/Plone/@@iconresolver/align-center

Reviewer: Combine this code block with the previous one.

```

> It can be used via URL or via Python as shown below.

Reviewer: This is not clear. What is "it"? The icon resolver or the URL?

Which section below? Please name the specific section or use a link, e.g.:

```
...as described in the section {ref}`classic-ui-icons-iconresolver-get-icon-url-label`.
```

(classic-ui-icons-iconresolver-get-icon-url-label)=

### Get icon URL via Python expression

> The `url` method of `@@iconresolver` view returns the actual url to the SVG icon. The iconresolver view is globally available in templates under the name `icons`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `url` method of the `@@iconresolver` view returns the actual URL to the SVG icon.
The icon resolver view is globally available in templates under the name `icons`.
```

This can be used in a template for an `img` tag:

```xml
<img class="custom-class"
    alt="foo"
    src="${python:icons.url('alarm')}" />
```

(classic-ui-icons-iconresolver-get-icon-tag-label)=

### Get an inline icon (tag) via Python expression

The tag method is used with `tal:replace`.
It returns an SVG image.
Inline icons can be styled via CSS.

> `tag_class` and `tag_alt` is used to pass in custom classes and an `alt` text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tag_class` and `tag_alt` are used to pass in custom classes and an `alt` text.
```

```xml
<tal:icon
  tal:replace="structure python:icons.tag('alarm')" />

<tal:icon
  tal:replace="structure python:icons.tag('archive', tag_class='custom-class', tag_alt='foobar')" />
```

### Get inline icon (tag) in a template via traverse

```xml
<tal:icon tal:replace="structure icons/alarm" />
```

### Get an inline icon (tag) in JavaScript

```js
const baseUrl = $("body").attr("data-portal-url");
let icon = null;
if(baseUrl){
    const url = baseUrl + "/@@iconresolver";
    if (url) {
        const resp = await fetch(`${url}/${name}`);
        icon = await resp.text();
    }
}
```

> [Mockup](https://github.com/plone/mockup) provides an iconResolver function, defined in core/utils.js,  which does this the same way and has a fallback for demo and testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Mockup](https://github.com/plone/mockup) provides an `iconResolver` function, defined in `core/utils.js`,  which does this the same way and has a fallback for demo and testing.
```

Plone ships with the following icon registrations by default.

- [Bootstrap](https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_bootstrap.xml)
- [Content Type](https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_contenttype.xml)
- [Mimetype](https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_mimetype.xml)
- [Language Flags](https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_language_flags.xml)
- [Country Flags](https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_country_flags.xml)
- [Plone](https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_plone.xml)
- [Toolbar](https://github.com/plone/plone.staticresources/blob/master/src/plone/staticresources/profiles/default/registry/icons_plone.xml)

The icons above are made available as Plone resources.

> For example, the lightning icon's resource path is `++plone++bootstrap-icons/lightning.svg`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the icon registered as `lightning` (in XML with prefix full name is `plone.icon.lighting`) resource path is `++plone++bootstrap-icons/lightning.svg`.
```
